take you back to Gaza now there's been
Fierce fighting around hanun the IDF
saying they have encircled the city in
the south of Gaza but also we understand
there is fighting around some of the
hospitals there that are there so let's
take you to Gaza we can speak to Leo
caner as the head of mission for
Palestine with the msf also known as
Doctors Without Borders uh it's very
good to see you Leo thank you for
joining us can you tell us where you are
firstly I just arrived in car yesterday
and I was in for the last two weeks were
you in
hanun yes we were in the west we are
living in the west side of hunis and I
went to visit the nas hospital and the
European hospital as well what was the
situation in those hospitals and Leo
what was happening around them was there
fighting around the
hospitals it's catastrophic you know I
just went there just a week ago and it
was already fighting quite close to the
hospital when I was there there was a
bomb who fell down just 150 M away from
the hospital it killed two boys four
years old and 5 years old plus six six
more people uh and 80 wed so already
when I was there a week ago the fighting
was quite close since a few days it's
becoming increasingly uh uh uh close in
the immediate vicinity I just talk with
my team this morning they are very
scared about what is going on they don't
know where the troops are they hear a
lot of shooting and bombing uh they are
so scared to get out of the hospitals
because they are scared of being shot at
like it happened in shifa hospital in in
the North like in Indonesian Hospital in
the north as well uh they're really
terrorized by what's happening and we
can see that currently the Israeli
military ring is on purpose terrorizing
the healthcare worker it is not
acceptable they had to bury bodies
inside the hospital because they were
too scared to go to the cemetery that is
just 100 meters away from the
hospital and what is happening in terms
of treating people inside the hospital
what is needed there how overcrowded is
it what do you have in terms of
equipment do you know it was already
overcrowded when I when I get there um
uh people everywhere idps everywhere uh
uh way too many patients for the number
of healthcare worker so many patient
were just laying on their beds for for
for days for weeks without the proper
without the proper medical care because
there are not enough staff currently uh
More than 70% of the staff has left ner
because they're scared for their life
and this is not acceptable what is going
on we we are forced to abandon patients
to to let patient dies die on their bed
uh because because healthare worker
cannot stay in the hospital it's it's
it's happened in the North it happens
again in the South Naser hospital and
European Hospital are the last two
hospital that were functioning in in in
the South now Naser is barely
functioning anymore because there are no
more staff and no more staff to take
care of the patient patient are in
critical condition they need a lot of
care and we cannot give to
them in going on is any medical Aid
getting across the border to the NASA
Hospital you know we managed to get some
Medical Aid across the border but it's
very difficult to bring it to the
hospital when I was there a week ago we
brought full full care of medical supply
so they they have some medical supply to
carry on even if it's not enough
especially in term of pain killer uh but
when you talk about the north of Gaza
which we tend to forget a bit like like
shifa Hospital like Indonesian Hospital
there is no Supply at all almost that
can reach this area when I was there I
tried four times to go in North Gaza
four times we were denied by the Israeli
Army to to reach this area this is uh
completely forbidden under international
law to forbid humanitarian people to
bring essential Goods like medicines uh
uh to the population uh what is going on
in Gaza now it's too much uh uh it's a I
I hope we're not getting used to it it's
a it's it's a massacre that is going on
every day uh I can remind you that since
the beginning of the war it's 25,000
people who got killed uh if we just
count the women and children it's 15,000
women and children who got killed in the
beginning of the war it's
150 children and women being killed
every single day since the beginning of
the war it is not a normal War it is a
war that is targeting civilians when I
was visiting Nas hospital and European
hospital I was shocked but truly shocked
by the number of children and women
inside those hospital it was mainly
women and children I have never seen
this in any other world and I've been in
in in working in other Wars as msf we've
been working in other Wars mostly you
see combatants and you see some civilian
people but here it's the opposite you
see mostly civilian people getting
treated for for for for for very
difficult wounds the M are crushed a lot
of burns on the face on on on the on the
arms legs on the body it's it's it's
extremely difficult ones to take care of
and it's a it's a it's shocking and
outraging that so many civilians are
being uh wounded and killed
Leo K thank you very much for joining us
head of mission for Palestine with the
msf thank you thank
you